||||

69. Surah Al-Haqqah (The Inevitable)

In the Name of Allah, The Most Gracious, Most Merciful

1. The Reality (i.e. the Day of Resurrection)!

2. What is the Reality?

3. And what will make you know what the Reality is?

4. Thamud and 'Ad people denied the Qari'ah [the striking Hour (of Judgement)]!

5. As for Thamud, they were destroyed by the awful cry!

6. And as for 'Ad, they were destroyed by a furious violent wind;

7. Which Allah imposed on them for seven nights and eight days in succession, so that you could see men lying overthrown (destroyed), as if they were hollow trunks of date-palms!

8. Do you see any remnants of them?

9. And Fir'aun (Pharaoh), and those before him, and the cities overthrown [the towns of the people of [Lout (Lot)] committed sin,

10. And they disobeyed their Lord's Messenger, so He punished them with a strong punishment.

11. Verily! When the water rose beyond its limits [Nuh's (Noah) Flood], We carried you (mankind) in the floating [ship that was constructed by Nuh (Noah)].

12. That We might make it a remembrance for you, and the keen ear (person) may (hear and) understand it.

13. Then when the Trumpet will be blown with one blowing (the first one),

14. And the earth and the mountains shall be removed from their places, and crushed with a single crushing,

15. Then on that Day shall the (Great) Event befall,

16. And the heaven will split asunder, for that Day it (the heaven will be frail (weak), and torn up,

17. And the angels will be on its sides, and eight angels will, that Day, bear the Throne of your Lord above them.

18. That Day shall you be brought to Judgement, not a secret of you will be hidden.

19. Then as for him who will be given his Record in his right hand will say: Take, read my Record!

20. Surely, I did believe that I shall meet my Account!

21. So he shall be in a life, well-pleasing.

22. In a lofty Paradise,

23. The fruits in bunches whereof will be low and near at hand.

24. Eat and drink at ease for that which you have sent on before you in days past!

25. But as for him who will be given his Record in his left hand, will say: I wish that I had not been given my Record!

26. And that I had never known, how my Account is?

27. I wish, would that it had been my end (death)!

28. My wealth has not availed me,

29. My power and arguments (to defend myself) have gone from me!

30. (It will be said): Seize him and fetter him,

31. Then throw him in the blazing Fire.

32. Then fasten him with a chain whereof the length is seventy cubits!

33. Verily, He used not to believe in Allah, the Most Great,

34. And urged not on the feeding of Al-Miskin (the poor),

35. So no friend has he here this Day,

36. Nor any food except filth from the washing of wounds,

37. None will eat except the Khati'un (sinners, disbelievers, polytheists, etc.).

38. So I swear by whatsoever you see,

39. And by whatsoever you see not,

40. That this is verily the word of an honoured Messenger [i.e. Jibrael (Gabriel) or Muhammad  which he has brought from Allah].

41. It is not the word of a poet, little is that you believe!

42. Nor is it the word of a soothsayer (or a foreteller), little is that you remember!

43. This is the Revelation sent down from the Lord of the 'Alamin (mankind, jinns and all that exists).

44. And if he (Muhammad ) had forged a false saying concerning Us (Allah),

45. We surely should have seized him by his right hand (or with power and might),

46. And then certainly should have cut off his life artery (Aorta),

47. And none of you could withhold Us from (punishing) him.

48. And verily, this Qur'an is a Reminder for the Muttaqun (pious - see V.2:2).

49. And verily, We know that there are some among you that belie (this Qur'an). [Tafsir At-Tabari, Vol. 29, Page 68]

50. And indeed it (this Qur'an) will be an anguish for the disbelievers (on the Day of Resurrection).

51. And Verily, it (this Qur'an) is an absolute truth with certainty .

52. So glorify the Name of your Lord, the Most Great.

